two years ago a game called hunt down
the freeman went live on the steam store
for $25 all of them my new details about
its design about its disrespect towards
the source material and about its
posible legality have all been discussed
at length on a lot of other platforms
but to fill you in hunt down the Freeman
is a paid half-life game that is sold on
Valve's storefront that valve had
nothing to do with and in fact was an
excellent example of Valve's laissez
faire nature shooting them in the foot
because hunt down the Freeman two years
later is still on the steam store a game
that allegedly uses assets stolen from
the Garry's Mod workshop a game by all
accounts was not playable and to end
four months following launch and a game
that did not understand the source
material and abused the community's want
for a new half-life game to make a cheap
sale as quickly as possible and now two
years on hunt down the Freeman for
better or for worse has had a profound
effect on the valve community as a whole
and both the negatives and few positives
that do exist because of it need to be
stated outright
these are the long-term effects of hunt
down the Freeman
[Music]
that's my crash yeah I win I did it
yeah this is only available for seven
days by the way crowd made comm link
down in the description hope you can get
one in time the first few weeks
following launch were confusing me
personally I live streamed in the entire
day one build of the game in one sitting
at the time it was one of my most
successful live streams due to just how
insanely weird the situation was when
does a multi-billion dollar company
allow the use of their franchise in such
a weird way to be officially supported
at least in the public's eye because of
its sale on the official storefronts
owned by that same company rumors were
all over the place people were claiming
that illegal files were found within the
bill people were claiming that most of
the assets were stolen without original
creators permission and people were also
claiming that $50,000 was somehow spent
on this game never to be recuperated the
game pulled online celebrity voice
talent just for the means of the clout
some of these actors allegedly never to
be paid there was a pretty major problem
though valve was not comfortable
commenting on the half-life franchise at
this time we all know now that at the
time they were in heavy development for
what would become half-life Alex but
also at the time were a few other major
virtual reality titles half-life Alex
was not the main focus of the company
valve always playtests their games in
almost any part of development and
following the release and major PR
nightmare that was hunt down the Freeman
there were conversations that were held
with play testers that pretty much just
devolved into well what should you do in
order to counteract what happened with
hunt down the Freeman did you see that
live stream with that McVicker kid what
would he think of this VR title that
you're working on hunt down the Freeman
caused some pretty major headaches in
the source engine modding communities
for one immediately following the game's
release it was impossible to get a
license
you see source engine is still a thing
that people can license out and develop
a retail products for
under very strict circumstances you can
use valves IP however we've all been
under the assumption that in order to
use valves IP for a retail product you
need valves strict written permission
and apparently hunt down the Freeman had
that however the fact that they did
underlines a problem that valve doesn't
really pay attention to what people are
pitching them and for a long time they
were just writing off every major thing
that was sent to them following hunt
down the Freeman some relationships were
severed immediately there were
development teams that never heard back
from valve and then something strange
happened licences were given out far
more frequently instead of trying to
pull the entire system following this
debacle a valve essentially supporting
what is a horrific game valve instead
started supporting significantly more
projects anybody that was following the
source engine developer community
understood that they were giving out
licenses far faster a lot of these
projects are still unreleased at the
current time however there are far more
projects using a source engines
development license than there were
before hunt down the Freeman had come
out valve was looking at competing with
this massive blunder by trying to
generate more positive community
attention but of course there's always a
caveat internally hunt down the Freeman
was a massive thorn in a lot of
developers sites but again valve doesn't
publicly comment on anything they
remained silent on hunt down the Freeman
and continue to for years and they
always will Valve's response to this
community blunder and effectively many
blunders that followed such as artifact
the epic game store a decade without a
major title release caused them to
double down on their own projects and
this is where I need to be careful with
what I say because allegedly the
developers have pumped down the Freeman
twist anything into some positive public
relations for themself
for example did you know that the
director of hunt down the freeman
regards the development time of that
game to the time that they worked at
valve according to this developers
LinkedIn profile that LinkedIn profile
helped get that person a job at
Activision Blizzard working on Call of
Duty mobile battle during all of this
did two major things number one they
rewrote the story of half-life valley
obviously it's not entirely to do with
hunt down the freeman but it happening
around the same time that the original
story was receiving a lot of negative
feedback from play testers and
developers definitely added up to
bringing a wool pub back and finishing
up the story in a completely different
way and then of course finishing up the
game entirely there is a series of
events that traces back to the release
of hunt down the freeman that
effectively states that if that game
hadn't happened valve may not have
finished half-life Alex that's the
biggest long-term effect of you fucked
up my face if you are watching this
report on the day that it released I am
going to be live-streaming the entirety
of hunt down the Freeman for the very
last time at 6 p.m. Eastern Standard
Time on my twitch page this is the final
time I am ever talking about or playing
the game ever there's a lot more
positivity coming into this community
and I want to put the final nail in the
coffin for myself and my brand so if you
want to join and play the second year
anniversary livestream of hunt down the
Freeman my twitch pages down in the
description below and if you're watching
this following the release of the video
the vaad of that live stream will be up
on my second channel the link to that
will be in the description once the vaad
is available i'm tyler McVicker this is
valve news network it's just how it is
you know
adios